All right, so we need to install Android Studio, which is the official I.D. to download Android applications.
Go to Google and type Android Studio as such.
And then I think the second hit or so should be where you should be going to download industry and then
you find a HTTPS developer to come this one here.
Click on that.
And that should take us here, right?
Once we are here, we can go around and read about Android Studio and all the great things that Android
Studio provides to developers and so forth.
So it's pretty.
I think it's a good idea to take the time to read more about it in a studio, especially if you're getting
serious about Android development.
It's come up here and click Download Android Studio.
Such and of course, we'll have to read some terms and conditions just to make sure we are on the same
page with the Google, of course.
And then at the bottom, we can say I've read everything.
Now here we have two options.
If you are a Mac with Apple chip, of course you've got to go ahead and click and install this option.
Otherwise, if you have Intel chip, you go this option.
I happened to be on Intel, so I'm going to click on Intel.
If you don't know which Mac you are using, I would just do a quick search and look on your Mac to see
if you have an Apple chip.
OK.
So I have an older Mac, so Intel chip, that's what will work for me.
OK, so click and we'll start.
The download process may take a little while, so just wait until that is done and we'll proceed.
Once all it's downloaded, you can just double click OK, so all we have to do is just take this Android
studio here and drop into applications such that we take a little bit, OK?
After a few seconds, you'll see that we're all good.
All is installed.
So what do we need to do now on Mac?
Of course, we can just see command space and start typing in Android Studio as such.
Now you will see that I do have, of course, two Android Studio, another one here.
Just ignore everything else.
But the the reason why I have two is because I already had Android Studio, so I'm just really recording
this so that you have the opportunity to see how to download inside studio.
So I'm going to pick this one here, which is the one that we just created or we just installed it set
up.
So what do you need to do, of course, is to double click and it will start verifying everything and
making sure all is good.
So this should happen.
Android Studio and I know from internet you want to make sure that we are aware that this could also
be a malware, but we know that it's trusted.
So I'm going to say open in a way.
And there we go.
So now it is starting Android Studio.
At this point, it's called Arctic Fox.
So before all of that, we actually go through this process of configuring things and or studio, and
we just go through that process, just follow the screen.
You can choose standard or custom, and you can select a UI theme if you want a dark or light.
You can also then start verifying settings, so to install everything that you need in one side and
then you can go ahead and back and start the project.
OK.
So this is my settings, of course.
And of course, you can customize Android Studio to your liking and customize.
I have the accessibility I.D. font larger.
So that way you can actually see, as I code, the bigger font it since I'm recording this course is
better for you to be able to see.
OK, so you can change, of course, the edit editor font, the fonts and so forth.
So a lot of things here.
And you can also add plugins and can learn more about Android Studio and so forth.
OK, so back to our project here.
You can go ahead and just starting your project, so we're going to create a project and voila.
So now we have an option to start a new project.
So as you see here, we have different paths we can take.
What we're interested in is the empty compose activity, right?
It's all about compose.
And next, I'm going to have to add a name.
OK, so my first compose whatever name you want, the location, that's fine.
And also the package name, whatever you have, you probably going to have the calm that example that
my first composer will, my first compose or whichever name you added at the top here for your application
doesn't matter.
And make sure that the language is Scotland because that's what we need and minimalistic in this case.
Twenty eight, that's totally fine.
All right.
I'm going to go out and say, finish, and I was going to go ahead and provision our new application,
new project, I should say.
And because this is the first time this may take a few minutes, so just be patient and wait.
All right.
So right away, you can see our assistant here, we can actually close that down.
It tells us a little bit about Arctic Fox, OK, what it's all about and so forth.
So take time to read.
So you want to read that on the browser?
You can do so by clicking here.
So for now, I'm just going to close it down a little bit.
So now is indexing.
Gradle is working a backend.
It may take a little bit.
Again, keep in mind the colors that you see here or my editor may be different than yours because of
my settings that I have transported from previous installs and so forth.
So don't worry too much if it doesn't look exactly as mine, right?
As long as the Android Studio itself looks how it looks out of the box, that's totally fine.
So we're waiting for Gradle to finish its singing process.
It may take a little bit again.
Just relax and we'll wait until it's all done OK.
Once all is done.
Let's see.
You can see we have a project created.
Can I sort of toggle that this to have more space?
And now I'm actually running to see if we can see some sort of a preview to the right here, right?
Because we have code.
This is compose code.
Now Gradle at the bottom here you can see Gradle building and running and hopefully soon we can see
something here.
And while I think it's building, still rendering slowly, but after a few attempts, you can see there
we go.
Can click this button here to make it look bigger 100 percent or can make it even bigger.
I can see we have a low world is showing in our COMPOSE preview.
OK, so this is success, as you can see.
So, OK.
All right.
So as you can see, you should have your Android studio set up at this point should all be good.
And the other thing we would want to do, of course, is to create an emulator because we want to use
that to test our apps.
So it's very simple.
What you need to do is go to the top here where it says avid manager.
Click.
And as you can see, for me, I do have a few virtual devices already.
But in your case, if this is your first time you've ever installed Android Studio, you should see
nothing here.
OK, so what you need to do is click on create a virtual device such and pick whatever you want.
OK.
I would always recommend to pick something that has placed or icon.
Here is a lot of dependencies.
A lot of libraries that we may need in the future are part of the Play Store library, so it's just
a good thing to be aware of.
So I'm going to pick Pixel four or I can pick something else.
But Pixel four is fine of, let's say, next.
In this case, here for your case, you may not have are or CU, depending on which API level we want
to attach this emulator with.
You will have to download it, right?
So in this case here, if our, for instance, shows download, you will have to click download so that
that is downloaded internally.
Then we are going to be able to create that image.
To create that emulator in this case is fine.
I have it downloaded already.
I'm just going to say next and I can change the name here U1 or whatever you want because I'm changing
this name because I already have Pixel four API 30 installed already.
OK.
And of course, I use automatic.
It's usually the one that is selected.
That's fine.
And everything else should be fine.
And what do you need to do then?
Just say, finish.
I'm not going to do that because I don't want to create a new one.
But it should be good if they finish, will take a few moments to create your in your family.
OK.
Once you're done, then you will see that it will be shown here as well.
All right, very good.
And once you have that, it's very simple because it's going to show you here as one of the available
devices.
And so and then you can just go ahead and click Run.
We'll take a few moments.
OK, it was good, David.
I think he wants us to pick one.
OK.
I'm just going to go ahead and pick that one.
OK, now says here connecting to the emulator.
Just get rid of here.
OK, get out of there.
And we'll take a few moments ago and get this rebooting and new emulator.
It's the equivalent of starting in your phone, so it may take a little bit after a few moments.
Can see that we have successfully installed our Compose Android app here into our emulator.
OK, so this is really good.
And of course, as you can see here, I have some issues, but that's fine.
He just tells us there's a warning because this pixel to know that it's probably lower API level than
it needs to be.
So what happened is that it went and got the Pixel four API 30, which is the minimum API level that
it's needed in order to run compose applications in this case.
OK, so this is good, which is the API level set up to run this app so that it's all good because Android
Studio is smart enough to go and pick up the correct emulator to run this app?
OK, so there we go, which should be good at this point.
Ready to go?
All right.
Well, let's get to it.